---
layout: post
title: Open Postdoc position for Fungal genome data integration
wordpress_id: 422
wordpress_url: http://lab.stajich.org/home/?p=422
categories: []
tags: []
---
[Update May 5, 2011 -- This position is on hold to focus on [hiring a programmer](http://lab.stajich.org/home/2011/04/fungidb-programmer-position/) to work on data development and loading]There is an open position in the lab to support development of FungiDB, a database for fungal genome data integration.## **Postdoctoral fellow supporting fungal genome database development**
**Position Description**A postdoc position is available in the laboratory of Dr. Jason Stajich to support the development of FungiDB, a database for fungal genomic and functional data.   Strong candidates will be proficient in the Perl programming language; modern biology in general and bioinformatics in particular; show a demonstrated ability to quickly pick up new biology and computer science concepts; be comfortable using relational databases; and possess core Unix skills to do these tasks efficiently.  Experience using Perl for genome sequence data processing a plus.You’ll also have a relentless attention to detail, the ability to work independently on challenging problems with no direct easy solution.  You will use these skills to help organize, analyze, and display a vast amount of disparate biological data and interact with the fungal community. There will be opportunities for self-directed research utilizing this collection of genomics and comparative database and tools.Application evaluation will begin Feb 1, 2011 until the position is filled. Salary and benefits will be commensurate with experience and University of California Postdoctoral Union agreement.**Qualifications**Minimum qualifications include a Ph.D. in Biological Sciences, Computer Science, Statistics, or a related field. Demonstrated experience in bioinformatics and high proficiency in Perl programming is required.  Demonstrated experience in web or bioinformatics software development is a plus. The ability to work with a small, distributed team is essential including exceptional written and verbal communication skills.**To Apply**Contact Jason Stajich [jason.stajich@ucr.edu](mailto:jason.stajich@ucr.edu) with a CV and the names of three references letter writers.Information available on [UC Riverside](http://www.ucr.edu) and the[ Stajich lab](http://lab.stajich.org).**Information about UCR**In the Heart of Inland Southern California, UC Riverside is located on nearly 1,200 acres near Box Springs Mountain in Southern California, the park-like campus provides convenient access to the vibrant and growing Inland region. The campus is a living laboratory for the exploration of issues critical to growing communities — air, water, energy, transportation, politics, the arts, history and culture. UCR gives every student the resources to explore, engage, imagine and excel.At UC Riverside we celebrate diversity and are proud of our #5 ranking among the nation’s for most diverse universities (US News and World Report 2010). Become part of a place that fosters success for all its constituents, students, faculty, and staff, and where work/life balance and campus culture are integral to our way of life.UCR is ranked 43rd among top public universities (US News and World Report 2010).UCR is an affirmative action and equal opportunity employer with a commitment to workforce diversity.**AA/EOE**
